ZWA-2: connect device to Home Assistant via proxy device (#657)
NabuCasa/support: src/connect-zwa-2/getting-started/connect-the-device-to-ha-via-proxy-device.md

---
zendesk:
  article_id: 29751691427741
  name: Using a proxy device to connect Home Assistant Connect ZWA-2
  position: 49
  labels: connect-zwa-2
---

If you need to place Connect ZWA-2 far away from your Home Assistant system, you can run Z-Wave JS on another system and connect that to Home Assistant.

This allows you to plug Home Assistant Connect ZWA-2 in a location that is closer to your end devices.

## Prerequisites

> - A system that can act as proxy and fulfills the following requirements:

Reviewer: This system needs a free USB-A port (or else the requirement on line 22 will not work)

---
zendesk:
  article_id: 29751691427741
  name: Using a proxy device to connect Home Assistant ZWA-2
  position: 49
  labels: connect-zwa-2
---

If you need to place Connect ZWA-2 far away from your Home Assistant system, you can run Z-Wave JS on another system and connect that to Home Assistant.

> This allows you to plug Home Assistant Connect ZWA-2 in a location that is closer to your end

Author: thx for the catch!

## Prerequisites

- A system that can act as proxy and fulfills the following requirements:

>   - has an Ethernet connection (Wi-Fi will be less reliable) to your network
>   - can run containers (for instance, a Raspberry Pi system running Docker)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - has an Ethernet connection (Wi-Fi will be less reliable) to your network.
  - can run containers (for instance, a Raspberry Pi system with Docker installed).
```

7. **Result**: The Z-Wave JS UI system should now be discovered by Home Assistant.
   - **Troubleshooting**:  if it is not discoverd, you can configure it manually.
     - On your Home Assistant system, go to [**Settings** > **Devices & services**](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/integrations/)
     - Add a Z-Wave hub using a **Custom installation method**.
     - Make sure to *uncheck* the **Use the Z-Wave Supervisor add-on** option.
     - Fill in the IP address of the Z-Wave JS UI system (for example `ws://IP-ADDRESS:3000`.

## Related topics

- [Finding a good installation location](https://support.nabucasa.com/hc/en-us/articles/28670284336925)
- [Assemble Connect ZWA-2](https://support.nabucasa.com/hc/en-us/articles/28685750450205)
- [Installing a Z-Wave JS UI container](https://zwave-js.github.io/zwave-js-ui/#/getting-started/docker)
- [Setting up a Z-Wave JS UI system](https://zwave-js.github.io/zwave-js-ui/#/usage/setup?id=setup)
- [Z-Wave JS settings](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/switching-z-wave-js-addons-with-minimal-downtime-z-wave-js-official-to-z-wave-js-ui-community/409904)

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
